have you ever been to an escape room it's
actually quite fun unless it's about life or
death in this video we follow their
characters highlight their weaknesses
and decide on better tactics to survive
and ultimately beat the game masters in
now the goal is to have everyone survive
which by the way is entirely possible now
at the beginning of the movie we witnessed three
of the participants receiving a package containing
a black cube which turns out to be a puzzle once
they solve it possible through multiple ways they
find a ticket in it i find it quite interesting
to see the differences in temperament of each
character while zoe is utterly intrigued by
solving it jason is just annoyed and wants
to get what's inside and ben well ben does it his
way i guess all the packages were sent from people
they know and respect in one way or another
Zoey's for instance was sent by her professor
and jason's by one of his clients this is
a small but crucial aspect as it evokes
our protagonist's trust and therefore anything
that might be weird about receiving such package
is completely justified once the box opens each
one receives an invitation in form of a ticket
minos escape room is the sender and they have just
been invited to participate in an escape room to
win 10 000 dollar now as everyone assembles in the
waiting room we get to meet the other protagonists
after everyone introduces themselves it is safe
to say that all the characters have different
motivations to participate while amanda mike
and ben are in it for the money zoey seems to
participate for the sake of solving tricky
questions who would have thought and while
jason seems to be in it for the sake of winning
danny well danny is just being danny i guess
got to love this character though since the
game hasn't started and everyone is waiting
ben tries to leave the room for a cigarette
just to realize the game has already begun
now as a quick side note and something many
explained videos have actually missed the room was
designed in a way that triggers the start of the
game by leaving the room itself implying nothing
would have happened as long as no one tries to
leave but everyone would leave at some point
if nothing happens pretty clever design now
as everyone starts looking around for clues
the room starts to heat up they eventually
find the last piece of the puzzle
and manage to escape to the next room before the
last one gets covered in flames i don't want to
go into full detail here as everyone survives
and there is not much else to figure out here
as they barely make it to the second room amanda
attempts to send out a message with danny's phone
but fails as there is no available
connection jason finds a key and ben
figures out the seven digit code needed to
unlock the cabin while they step outside and
search for clues when he unknowingly activates an
ac system that chills the cold room even further
which is less than ideal in a room where the
temperature is already below the freezing point
to be precise here hypothermia is no joke and can
be deadly it hits when the body loses heat faster
than it can produce and the body temperature falls
below 35 degrees celsius or 95 degree fahrenheit
in a sub-zero environment with chill winds this
can happen within minutes our protagonists do
not have much time left until death arrives while
looking for hints they find the following items
one winter jacket a fishing rod a magnet and
an ice fishing hole i think there is no need to
elaborate on the use of those items as it's very
obvious while they go fishing danny breaks through
the ice and dies with him goes the phone and
the lighter which is just the tip of the iceberg
no pun intended here anyway they use the given
tools and find a solid block of ice with a key
in the middle of it the attempt to melt the block
of ice with their bare hands wouldn't even come
to my mind it seemed a little odd especially
considering their circumstances and serious lack
of time so before we save danny let's sum it up
real quick the temperature is sub-zero and falling
plus there is chilly wind they lack warm clothing
and have to somehow get the key in a massive
block of ice plus they face serious threats of
hypothermia let's see how we save danny when
danny broke through the ice amanda volunteered
to save him as a veteran it's safe to assume she
knows how to evaluate dangerous situations and how
to rescue other people however jason's concerns
were also appropriate diving into a frozen lake
without proper safety measurements could easily
result in her death so how can we save danny while
not risking to sacrifice amanda well why not use
the fishing rod tieing around the torso or leg
of amanda while she goes diving for dany would
have minimized her risk to die furthermore the
trace of the road appeared to be made out of metal
which ensures durability an important aspect for
a task like this if they could come up with this
idea in time and quickly act on it i think we can
assume danny would have survived all the tools
necessary for this rescue were available but let's
go back to the ice block even if then he survives
the lighter would have been no help after
taking a dip in the lake surely we do have
another pair of hands available to melt the ice
block but this solution is just not my cup of tea
melting a block of ice of this size would take the
better half of an hour at this point in the movie
the thermometer showed zero fahrenheit or below
17 degrees celsius which goes without saying is
pretty cold it's simply not a sustainable idea
to get the key that way the first idea to smash
the block against a tree which didn't work was
nevertheless a good try but let's assume all those
were fake and they can't use them to break through
the ice is there still a chance to get the key
faster well i think so remember the wire fishing
trace let's use that one to saw through the ice
surely we do need to overcome the metal frame
first but once there nothing stays in between
anymore the solution in an ideal world of course
would have been that everyone stays in the cabin
while only one looks for clues with one available
winter jacket time would have been no problem
amanda again as a war veteran would have
been a perfect candidate for such tasks
if by any chance she would have activated the ac
the same way as danny did and all the doors and
windows of the cabin would close down then there
wouldn't be no problem at all everyone who stayed
in the cabin can just break the windows from the
inside and let her in once she would have returned
with the icebox they could have just melted it
cozy next to the fireplace also in an ideal world
they would have realised that even though they
didn't have mobile connection in the beginning
of this chapter they did have slight 4g connection
giving rise to the chance of reaching out through
internet-based chat services perhaps they could
have beat the game masses already at this point!
but off to the next chapter danny is safe and
we are excited for him to see the next room
he'll be geeking out for sure this room was
one of my favorites even though amanda's
death was completely unnecessary and i'll
get to that but i just love the retro vibes
as a quick reference point many of you
perhaps remember that in earlier days you
couldn't receive or make a call with the same
telephone line your internet was connected to
meaning every time someone tried to call you while
you were browsing the internet they would hear the
infamous dial-up signal instead on the contrary
if you made a phone call your internet connection
would disconnect which could be very frustrating
at times but anyway the movie seems to make a
cross-reference in that regard every time the
signal appears the floor would lose another part a
connection to get across while i'm sure the props
team of the movie had mad fun designing this set
the script writers could have implemented their
ideas a little bit more in depth now the room
design is pretty straight forward everything is
upside down the floor falls off every time the
signal appears so in order to escape our
protagonists must get a hold on the bars
fixated on the walls which look like they weren't
intended for this use they seem to go around the
whole room and there are multiple other properties
that seem to be intended for similar use
if things were to get intense as everyone saves
themselves by grabbing the bars on the walls
amanda makes her way up to the upside down bar
and finds a safe they require a four digit code
which they figure out quickly by solving a giant
sliding puzzle on the wall amanda secures an eight
ball from the safe which appears to be the key to
enter the next room while all of our protagonists
are already in the corner where the door is
located amanda has yet to get over there well
i admire your strength amanda but i think it's the
wrong timing for a workout why not take the same
way jason used before there was absolutely
no need to risk your life so unnecessary
and instead of encouraging her to jump one should
have just told her to take the freaking way along
the side jesus christ and boom amanda survives
and there you go friends that's how you do it
our protagonists enter the next room but i at this
point just wonder how big is this place really
i mean originally amanda fell for about four
seconds into darkness that's four seconds of
free fall if we use our brains efficiently we must
conclude that they are in a 76 meter tall building
so they have started in a waiting room which
led to a cabin in narnia and then entered what
seemed to be a high-rise building seems like
those game masters have some serious funding
what's coming next this room is a hospital ward
with a bed for each character they quickly realize
that each one of them has a similar backstory
everyone has solely survived a tragic event in
the past all the previous hints and flashbacks are
explained and they understand that each room was
designed in relation to their individual pasts
as they realized this in pure saw fashion a tv
turns on displaying a timer running down from five
minutes to zero at zero the room will be flooded
with carbon monoxide there really are three
things that make carbon monoxide so dangerous
first the molecules of the gas are so small they
can easily travel through objects like dry walls
secondly carbon monoxide mixes with
air causing it to neither rise nor fall
making an escape virtually impossible lastly
it's undetectable unless you use technology
it's a really sneaky gas according to a study done
by dr thomas steiner from the university of iowa
if the concentration is exceptionally high a fatal
carbon monoxide poisoning can happen in as little
as 5 minutes so zoeys attempt to break the windows
is actually completely justifiable as it would
give them the opportunity to breathe oxygen-rich
air and delay the concentration of the gas
but why does she try to break all the cameras
well this is a genius idea and we'll come back
to this later since this is the only room
with a chance of surviving the escape room
while Zoey goes seemingly mad
jason manipulates mike into death
which too was completely avoidable especially
if zoe had elaborated her plan clearer but i
guess she couldn't and i'll explain later why
as the clock strikes zero everyone gets poisoned
ben and jason just barely make it to the next
room while zoey stays and loses consciousness
now while i still refuse to believe that this
was actual dmt it was still pretty amusing now
the fight that broke out over who gets to use the
only anti-dote available however was not necessary
the effects of the drugs would have not lasted
for more than a few hours and they could have
just shared the antidote so both could at least
reduce the effects of the hallucinogen even if
we assumed that everyone would survive this and
the last room where ben only saves himself by
hiding in the fireplace it is still highly likely
that the game masters wouldn't keep them alive
so there is really only one chance for each
character to survive and this chance lies in
room number four in room four zoe realizes that
even if they should make it to the finish line
they will get killed nevertheless and it makes
total sense it's a logical assessment because
it simply would not be possible for the game
master to sustain his business if he lets any
participants escape imagine the difficulties
containing the spread of such news after every
escape room it's just not possible but let's
talk about zoe's plan first why it failed and
how we could have done better and save everyone
her idea was to exploit the heavy reliance of
the game master under surveillance cameras since
room 4 was bound to get flooded by poisonous gas
everyone in it would die if the cameras are
destroyed however there would be no way to tell
if the people in it are dead or alive but if you
can't observe anyone escaping the poisonous room
by looking at the cameras of the last and next
room you must conclude that the characters must
be dead naturally at some point someone must
enter the room to get rid of the dead bodies
therefore the plan is to fake your death
and overpower those who eventually enter
just like zoe did in the movie but could she
have done better i think yes you see zoe fails
to communicate her plan to the other characters i
guess she was afraid that if she told everyone the
game master would have overheard it and therefore
intervened so the only possibility here is
she needs to get her point across without being
too verbal about it and this is absolutely
possible especially in a huge room like this so if
everyone is on board and the cameras are destroyed
how do you manage to stay alive while being
locked in a carbon monoxide filled room
well the answer to that is you share the available
oxygen mask just like divers share their oxygen
tank underwater when necessary now i get it
sharing oxygen with five other people is dangerous
and even just a few minutes could feel like hours
so destroying some of the windows would be a great
solution to survive the glass looks thin enough
to break and it looks like direct sunlight hits
the glass from the other side promising fresh air
if the glass is overcome with heavy objects like
the computer monitors there is no doubt that it
is possible to break the windows especially when
you're six people of which four are men and the
others are too badass women now what happens next
obviously is they overpower the game masters all
together just like zoey did solo in the movie
then they meet the last boss of the game the
head game master overpower him too and celebrate
complete victory the police has no chance in
denying the story and our heroes would enjoy
coffee together other than just two of them
and there you have it survival would have been
possible for each member of the group if you think
you could have outsmarted the game master better
than i did consider leaving a comment with
your thoughts if you liked the video a like